docs/docs/setup/upgrading.md, before:

---
id: upgrading
---

# Upgrading

### Upgrade to a new version

As Pingvin Share is in early stage, see the release notes for breaking changes before upgrading.

#### Docker

```bash
docker compose pull
docker compose up -d
```

#### Stand-alone

1. Stop the running app
   ```bash
   pm2 stop pingvin-share-backend pingvin-share-frontend
   ```
2. Repeat the steps from the [installation guide](#stand-alone-installation) except the `git clone` step.

   ```bash
   cd pingvin-share

   # Checkout the latest version
   git fetch --tags && git checkout $(git describe --tags `git rev-list --tags --max-count=1`)

   # Start the backend
   cd backend
   npm install
   npm run build
   pm2 restart pingvin-share-backend

   # Start the frontend
   cd ../frontend
   npm install
   npm run build
   pm2 restart pingvin-share-frontend
   ```
Note that environemnt variables are not picked up when using pm2 restart, if you actually want to change configs, you need to run ````pm2 --update-env restart````

Commit message:

docs(installation): Add Portainer installation and upgrade steps (#651)
* Change general config icon

* Update package.json

* Add portainer installation documentation

---------

Co-authored-by: Elias Schneider <login@eliasschneider.com>

docs/docs/setup/upgrading.md, after:

---
id: upgrading
---

# Upgrading

### Upgrade to a new version

As Pingvin Share is in early stage, see the release notes for breaking changes before upgrading.

#### Docker

```bash
docker compose pull
docker compose up -d
```
### Portainer

1. In your container page, click on Recreate.
2. Check the Re-Pull image toggle.
3. Click on Recreate.

#### Stand-alone

1. Stop the running app
   ```bash
   pm2 stop pingvin-share-backend pingvin-share-frontend
   ```
2. Repeat the steps from the [installation guide](#stand-alone-installation) except the `git clone` step.

   ```bash
   cd pingvin-share

   # Checkout the latest version
   git fetch --tags && git checkout $(git describe --tags `git rev-list --tags --max-count=1`)

   # Start the backend
   cd backend
   npm install
   npm run build
   pm2 restart pingvin-share-backend

   # Start the frontend
   cd ../frontend
   npm install
   npm run build
   pm2 restart pingvin-share-frontend
   ```
Note that environemnt variables are not picked up when using pm2 restart, if you actually want to change configs, you need to run ````pm2 --update-env restart````
